#summary Configuration for home automation

== Introduction ==

Upon arrival at home, I have the system perform a couple of actions:
  * Wake computer from suspend mode
  * Turn on lights

== Wake-On-LAN Configuration ==
When your Android phone and suspended computer are on the same subnet behind a single router, [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wake_on_lan Wake-On-LAN] (WOL) is straightforward.  WOL must first be enabled in your computer's BIOS.  Then a "magic packet" is sent to the router's "broadcast address" on that subnet (192.168.1.255 or similar), targeting the MAC address of the suspended computer.

I recommend installing the [http://www.dd-wrt.com/site/support/router-database DD-WRT] firmware on your router. DD-WRT has a page that will allow you to test WOL ([http://androbuntu.googlecode.com/svn/screenshots/ddwrt/wol.png see screenshot]).

=== Multi-router configuration ===
Setting up WOL was somewhat complicated for my arrangement, as I have two "daisy-chained" WRT54GL routers, with DD-WRT on both.  Both routers use NAT.

The "top-level" router provides wireless internet for the apartment, while the second router serves as a wireless client, providing hard-wired ethernet in my room.

Since the Android device connects to the top-level router, the "Magic Packet" must be relayed across the second router. Normally, the magic packet is transmitted on the "broadcast address" of the subnet, but I was unable set up port forwarding to the broadcast address on the secondary router.  I was able to forward port 9 to a specific IP address on the subnet, but as I learned, the magic packet targets a specific MAC address, and the association between MAC and IP can be lost when a host is suspended.  To prevent this, I followed [http://www.dd-wrt.com/wiki/index.php/WOL#Remote_Wake_On_LAN_via_Port_Forwarding these instructions] to create a static ARP entry, using my own IP and MAC address:
{{{
ip neigh change 192.168.1.17 lladdr 90:e6:ba:5d:16:4e nud permanent dev br0
ip neigh add 192.168.1.17 lladdr 90:e6:ba:5d:16:4e nud permanent dev br0
}}}
where `192.168.1.17` is the suspended computer's statically-assigned IP address and `90:e6:ba:5d:16:4e` is its MAC address.

== X10 Lighting Control ==
I use a [http://www.x10.com/products/x10_cm19a.htm CM19A] (obtained [http://shop.ebay.com/?&_nkw=cm19a cheaply] on eBay), TM751 (X10 Wireless transceiver), and several lamp (LM465) and appliance (AM466) modules.

I tweaked [http://m.lemays.org/projects/x10-cm19a-linux-driver one of the several] Python USB scripts for operating the CM19A.

== USB LED indicators ==

  * https://www.delcomproducts.com/products_usblmp.asp
    * 80-90 bucks
  * http://www.computercolorcannon.com/
    * 100 bucks
  * http://store.mp3car.com/USB_LED_1_RGB_LED_Controller_p/com-143.htm
    * 50 Bucks
    * not sure if Linux support
  * PacDrive: http://www.ultimarc.com/pacdrive.html
    * 30 bucks
    * PacDrive is an HID device.
    * Order: http://www.ultimarc.com/JShopServer/section.php?xSec=5&xPage=1
  * USBMicro U401, U421, U451
    * 30 bucks, 30 bucks, 40 bucks, respectively
    * These are HID devices.
    * The first two are Single In-line Package and Dual In-line Package of the same thing.  General purpose I/O.
    * http://www.circuitgizmos.com/products.shtml
    * The U451 controls relays.